[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Like many
people I've had on my show,
John St. Augustine's story
started with losing it all.
And even after he thought
he had lost it all,
a time came to give more--
his kidney to his daughter.
This is a story of redemption.
And he and many others
have brought themselves
back into wholeness
after feeling broken.
We're going to hear that
story and how it's played out
for you, and as an
inspirational speaker how
you infect others with,
I think, a story of hope
on a lot of levels.
>>JOHN ST. AUGUSTINE:
Well, I think
that the most important
part of our lives
is the everyday stuff.
And it's great to
go to seminars,
and I've written books, and
that's wonderful to read that.
But that should push us all
to practical applications
in our lives.
So in many ways, I'm the
most least likely person
to be doing this.
My best grades in school,
they were lunch and gym.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: And I
really was pretty much
of a knuckle dragger
most of my life.
And until I found myself in
a position at the age of 37
where I had a college degree.
I knew all the right people.
I played golf with
all the right people.
I did everything correct.
And I still ended up living
in a motel in upper Michigan.
And it didn't line up for me.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about when
you showed all this potential,
when you had all the
advantages available to you.
Let's talk about the story of
how you ended up going really
onto a darker path for
a while, a path that
was disempowered at the least.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: You mean when
I was like a bouncer in a bar
and bending people
over fire hydrants?
>>REGINA: This is the part of
the story that we came for.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yes.
>>REGINA: I want to hear
about just how low it can go.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah, you
know, growing up in Chicago
has its own set of energies.
I believe that.
And growing up as young men
there, and going to high school
and all like that, you know,
I started falling into what
I thought it meant to be a man.
And that was usually beer,
fighting, beer, fighting,
and beer.
>>REGINA: Well, wait a minute,
I didn't hear football.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Well,
that comes in later.
That was when I was ten.
No, no, no, I'm kidding.
But I played high school
football, college football,
semi-pro football.
And all of those things
fed the beasties in me.
And I had not learned
how to turn those yet.
They were just being fed.
And the more you feed
that, the bigger it gets--
>>REGINA: Of course.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
--with everything.
>>REGINA: It's satisfying.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: It is.
It is.
And it was the only way I
could legally hurt people.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
Exactly.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Right?
So at one time in my life,
I had played high school,
like I said.
And I thought the Chicago
Bears were going to take me.
And I hurt my knee in the
last play of my last game
as a senior.
This AstroTurf stuff
they thought was so great
wasn't so great.
And all my college offers
went out the window.
So there's the first curveball.
The second curveball
came not much longer
after that I got a
partial scholarship
at Northeastern
Illinois University
where they used to have sports.
And they don't have any
more, which is interesting.
But I got a partial
scholarship there.
And in order to
fulfill my scholarship,
I also had to work.
What a concept.
Right?
That's not what I planned.
I planned to go to Kansas
and get a free ride.
And so this is how
it's going to go.
Not often do expectation
and reality lineup.
19 years old, I get electrocuted
at an Osco drugstore
in Chicago.
There's still some of
those in the Midwest.
And it was January 28, 1979.
And this machine I was
working on malfunctioned.
I was gone.
I was done.
And the only reason
I was able to survive
that was my size
and the pharmacist
happened to stay
late that night.
He never stays late.
Mike never stayed late.
Mike was the first
guy out the door.
But he'd been a medic in Vietnam
10 years earlier in 1969.
And he saved my life.
I woke up with him getting
my heart started again.
So that was a curveball, but
not enough to me to listen.
So
>>REGINA: OK.
So, so far spirit is speaking.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
I'm not listening.
>>REGINA: Blew your knee out.
You're not playing
football, honey.
And then the second one is
it's not your time to die.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Right.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: But
I'm still not listening.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: I'm 19.
I'm bulletproof.
Right?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: So for about
six weeks I kind of thought,
this is interesting,
but nah, so what.
And I got enough money out
of the settlement from Osco
to buy a car.
>>REGINA: Yeah, wheels.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: It's worth it.
>>REGINA: What more
does a 19-year old need?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
Yeah, I almost died.
Who cares.
And then I could not write.
So I had already played
high school football.
That didn't work out.
I got electrocuted.
Could not write for a year.
>>REGINA: What do you
mean you couldn't write?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Well, my hand
was just so burned and mangled
that I literally couldn't--
I remember the
plastic surgeon saying
do you want straight
fingers or do you
want to be able to use them?
I'm like, can I put
a beer can in there?
If I could put a beer can.
>>REGINA: Practical.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: 19.
And so they took skin from the
different folds of my body.
And they were able to make
my hand work pretty good.
And so I couldn't write.
So football's done
at that point.
Can't write.
And so I went back to
working construction
because that's what you do.
>>REGINA: Blue collar
job was out at the time.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Because no dexterity.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: I
mean, that was it.
>>REGINA: I mean, excuse
me, a white-collar job.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: White collar.
>>REGINA: Right.
Uh huh.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: OK.
There was no white collar
in my future at that point.
Certainly, not writing.
Certainly, not reading
and doing those things.
And I got a phone call
one night from a guy who
I had gone to college with.
We called him the
senator for some reason.
And he had joined
the Coast Guard.
And he called me at midnight
from Kodiak, Alaska.
And he said, hey,
what are you doing?
Like he knew I hadn't talked
to this guy in two years.
And like he knew I wasn't doing
anything except drinking beer
and working and whatever.
And he said, you know,
you ready now to join?
That's great.
I'm like, oh sure, makes sense.
Right?
Next day, down at the recruiter,
they looked at me, sure
you're in.
Let's go.
And eight weeks later,
I went off to boot camp.
And all those things-- the
football, the boot camp,
that hard knuckled stuff--
that fed me to the n-th degree
because that's how I grew up.
And I just carried
along with that.
And I spent four years in
the Coast Guard in aviation.
I was one of the people
that helped people get out
of the water with helicopters.
And I loved it.
And I came out of that.
And now what?
>>REGINA: Now, how old
are you by this point?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: I'm only 26.
>>REGINA: 26.
OK.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
Yeah, I mean, come on.
In just between the
time I left high school
and now, it's already
been pretty full.
And I started looking
back on things.
You know?
I started to see a
little bit of a connect
the dots when I was coherent
enough to understand them.
And I would see, well,
this led to this.
And because I didn't do
this, this meant this.
And this guy called
me, and here's this.
But again, I'm still pretty
rudimentary at the time
and not really understanding it.
And I got married in 1986.
Two weeks after we were
married, we went out
to get our wedding pictures.
And I worked in the
village at the time
where the photographer was.
And we get hit by a drunk
driver, 75 miles an hour
on my left side.
And I was driving a 1983
Pontiac Firebird, small car.
And this guy was
driving a Cadillac.
And it just obliterated the car.
And this was my second
you're not listening call.
Covered up.
Cut me out of the car.
No pulse, no nothing.
The guys that I worked
with, the firemen and such
that I worked with during
the day and all these guys,
I played softball with, they
were surrounding the car.
And they knew I was in there.
They couldn't get me out.
>>REGINA: Was your
wife in there with you?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah.
She was able to get out.
The door flew open.
>>REGINA: OK, good.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: She
was able to get out.
>>REGINA: So she got free.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: She got free.
The car was t-boned.
I was bent and you know, I
didn't do yoga at the time.
So they were forcing me
into some yoga positions.
And I had this
out-of-body experience
that I could not explain.
>>REGINA: I was just
going to ask you that.
Yeah.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
Didn't understand
what it was called
at the time, except I
had this overwhelming
sense of everything.
And I could almost feel the
emotions of these guys that
are trying so hard.
And I felt worse for
them than I did for me.
What is that?
I even had empathy for
the guy that was driving.
And I could almost
like see everything.
It's hard to explain.
I didn't physically see it.
But I felt it like a movie.
I could smell the gasoline
on the hot concrete.
Actually, a woman-- I'll
never forget her name,
Cassie White-- was
a nurse, came over.
She just happened to be there.
And she came over.
And my hand had gone
through the windshield.
And she stopped the
bleeding on the main artery.
And she whispered, I think
you're going to be OK.
But if you're not,
I'll pray for you.
OK.
Well, thanks.
You know?
Thanks for that.
>>REGINA: Now, when you're
out of your body, what
did you see about the
driver of the other car?
And what happened
to that person?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah.
So what I saw this--
it was so strange.
And no one's ever asked
me that, so thank you.
I saw like a kid,
like a child driving.
It wasn't a kid, obviously.
And later on, what would come to
be is this guy's had five DUIs.
He owned a string of dry
cleaners outside of Chicago.
And this is the fifth
time this has happened.
And they've let
them off each time.
And I kept thinking,
that pushed me
into a whole other direction.
But at that time, I
saw there was this kid.
And I didn't understand
what that meant.
I got home that
night out of that.
Amazingly, when they
got the car open
and opened it up, and
got me out, I stood up.
I said, I'm going to walk home.
It's 30 miles, but I'm
going to walk home.
And they didn't let me walk.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: They
put me in the hospital.
But I did go home that night.
And I was shocked
that physically,
because I was a really
good shape at the time,
I was not hurt worse.
And I thought, I
think I'm supposed
to listen to something.
And I'm not hearing it.
So in the space of just
a decade all this stuff
has happened-- electrocuted,
helicopters, car accidents,
knees blown out.
What's going on here?
>>REGINA: OK.
Finish up what you saw.
You saw a kid, that
other guy as a kid.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah.
So six weeks later, eight
weeks later, we go to court.
His lawyer called
two days later.
He left the scene.
His lawyer called
two days later.
Well, he'll be at court.
And that's when they
find out all this stuff,
he'd done this before.
When I got to the
courtroom, it's hot.
I don't wear ties.
I wore a tie.
It was not my element.
And the state's attorney
came up and said,
all you need for him to
do is admit he was wrong.
And you can sue him.
We need admission
of guilt. It was
the last case on the docket.
It's 90 degrees in there.
The guy walks in
with his attorney.
I'm sitting there.
He's standing there.
And he says, I plead guilty.
And the judge says $25
fine, end of the day.
>>REGINA: $25 fine?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
Running a red light.
>>REGINA: How does that compute?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Well,
that was my point.
Wait, wait.
What?
So the state-- well, you got him
admitting he ran a red light.
Now you can go after
him civilly and sue.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: That's it?
That's it?
>>REGINA: After five incidences?
No, I see, could you get
back out of your body
and look at what the
judge was thinking there?
I mean.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah,
he wanted to go home.
He didn't care.
And what happened
that night was one
of the most powerful, scary,
difficult, challenging things
that ever happened in my
short time on the planet.
I got home that night
and everything that
had been happening
for years had been
locked down or bolted back.
And it all came up.
It was like Mount Vesuvius.
I didn't know what PTSD was.
I didn't know what
panic attacks were.
And you know, my
wife at the time
had to call the cops
because she thought
was going to hurt somebody.
They hauled me off.
Put me in handcuffs.
They think I'm whacked out.
And all this is pushing on what
already shouldn't be pushed on.
I ended up in a place
called Sheridan Road
Hospital in Chicago, which
at the time was, I mean,
it's like "One Flew
Over the Cuckoo's Nest".
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: How
did I end up here?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: I have a job.
My name's over my shirt pocket.
I have a job.
>>REGINA: And you lost it.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: I totally lost.
>>REGINA: The injustice
of that event--
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
Totally lost it.
>>REGINA: --was the final straw.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: It
was the pinprick that
opened up the Hindenburg
of "are you kidding me?"
And I remember
walking into a room,
and there was a guy in there.
This is your roommate
for the night.
It was midnight by the
time I got in there.
Totally on my knees on the bed.
Just I don't even
know what's going on.
I can't control it.
It was like the old TV
show with Lou Ferrigno,
"The Hulk," all of a sudden this
energy would just take over me.
And I never hurt anybody.
And I got to this
room with this guy.
And he looked totally normal.
I'm like, well, this will be OK.
Until he started talking to
the chair like it was a dog.
And I thought, oh boy.
>>REGINA: Where am I?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: What
do you want from me?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: What
am I not listening to?
Next day they put
me in a big room.
And they figured out
I don't belong there.
They come take me out.
The only funny part of this
was these two huge guys
are taking me up in an elevator
to go talk to the docs.
And the guy says to me, he
goes, do you hear voices?
And I wanted to say, oh, yeah.
Don't you?
I know I'd never get out
of there if I said it.
Right?
But come to find out I started
learning about the mind body
connection.
And before that, didn't
even exist to me.
And the guy's like, here's all
the things that have happened.
And here's what you
didn't take care of.
And here's how it comes out.
Simple.
Take these Xanax.
You'll feel better.
Sure.
Can I take it with beer?
You know, what's the deal here?
And I learned shortly that
was not going to help me.
That was just going to defer.
And I got to get to the cause.
This was the effects.
And so I started, at the time,
it was a really rough time.
For a year my wife and
I slept with the lights
on in the living room.
And every night had
to pull out the bed
and put it in the living room
and watch "Back to the Future".
I had to watch the
same thing over.
I can't tell you
why with that movie.
And it had to have this rhythm.
And I started to be
able to work my way
through these energetic
cycles is what I call them.
And I was working overnight
at a hotel, security.
So I was up all
night, which was good.
I was walking.
But when it would
come on me, I was
able to start visualizing
things in my head.
Like I would take the weight bar
that we use on the bench press,
and I would bend it in my head.
And then unbend it.
And then bend it mentally
until the feeling left.
So I started to learn there's
a lot I don't know about me
and what's going on.
And what else is there.
So that kind of
set me on a course.
And then, I'll never forget
this, I was working overnight,
and there was some big
bar fight at the hotel.
Broke everything up.
Came back.
And a book fell out
of this guy's pocket.
Why this guy would have
this book is beyond me.
It's called "The
Road Less Traveled".
>>REGINA: Was he
in the bar-fight?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: He
was in the fight.
I threw him out of the bar.
And this book falls
out of his pocket,
"The Road Less Traveled"
by M. Scott Peck.
I think I'm supposed
to read this.
And as you probably
well know, it
started to dig in more of how we
are and all that kind of stuff.
So more connect the dots for me.
And there is there's a chapter
in my second book called
"No More Mr. Bad Guy."
When I worked at a bar, when
I was on the football field,
in other places I
inflicted pain on people
because I was in pain.
I didn't understand why,
nor did I question it.
It just am.
I never looked at what
the sources of that were.
And so I was totally valid.
And when I read this book and
started doing other things,
I started thinking maybe
there's something I'm missing.
And I sort of learned
how important questions
were to ourselves.
And that really,
in so many ways,
started the ball rolling
with all that follows.
And then some amazing
things happened after that.
Events took place.
>>REGINA: Yeah, the firewalker.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
Let's talk about-- get yourself
up to that part of the story
with the mystic giving
you the message.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah.
So after all that
happened, I was
pretty convinced I needed
to go back to school
and finish my college degree.
And being a veteran,
it was free.
So it was great.
And I went back.
And I was convinced,
even then, I'm
going to be a football
coach and play football
and be a gym teacher.
And that's it.
That's the extent of it.
And it wasn't even close.
And when I went back to school,
it got more and more difficult.
Kids were coming into our lives
and all that kind of stuff
so I had to take
alternative courses.
And I finally got my degree.
I think the first year
I went there was 1977.
I was out of there by '79
with an "Animal House"
grade point average of nothing
because of beer and football
and getting hurt.
And when I went back, I
didn't finish till '92.
I started like in '88.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: So
I was able to finish.
And I had a sense of pride about
that that was unfamiliar to me.
I had accomplished something
that didn't involve
knocking somebody's teeth out.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: That's good.
>>REGINA: It is.
I mean, I think that that
self-validation, nothing
can replace that feeling of
our own understanding of we
showed up for ourselves.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yes.
And I think it's in disguise.
For most of my life,
it's been in disguise.
I thought it was
this but, I lifted up
the curtain, and
voila, there is this.
I'm like, really,
that was in there?
Just as a point.
I was at the dentist
recently, and I
had left a copy of my
second book with the dentist
because she's great.
And I signed it to
her and everything.
And thanks for no
pain because no pain
isn't always gain or something.
And she says you don't
look like a writer.
You don't sound like a writer.
And you fooled me.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: And
I think I realized it
works for me because of that.
Those are tools.
>>REGINA: So in a way you
kind of fooled yourself.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yes.
It was like that was
all put in place for me
to be able to pull it off later.
It's a never ending
wake-up call.
So anyway we went
through all that.
And again, things
started changing.
And then in 1990--
I'm guessing it was
like 1994, 1995,
I was giving a talk
at Northeastern,
where I had graduated from.
And these people
walked into the room.
And it turned out they
were in the wrong room.
They thought I was in talk about
like the Geological Survey of I
don't know what.
And I wasn't.
I was talking about
sports stuff at the time.
And they come up afterwards.
And they asked if I would speak
at their son's commencement
address.
Sure.
Where is it?
Well, it's in upper Michigan.
Sure.
Where is that?
Near Canada.
Oh, OK.
It's north.
OK, I can do that.
>>REGINA: Well, you
were compelling whatever
the subject.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
Yeah, whatever it was.
I thought well sure
I could do that you.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
good storyteller.
Yeah.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
Yeah, whatever it was.
And a few months later, maybe
six, eight months later,
we started driving up
north and eventually--
I'd never been past Milwaukee
or Appleton, Wisconsin--
get up there.
And get into the rooms
at 9:00 and 10:00
at the Hillcrest
Motel on US highway 2.
Where's Andy and Barney?
Because there's
nothing going on here.
I go back to the school.
I'll never forget this.
I go back to school.
And there's a janitor
cleaning the floor
in the auditorium or the gym,
pulling out the bleachers.
And I said I need to find the
supervisor because I'm here
to speak with.
He goes, well, I'm
the supervisor.
>>REGINA: And the janitor.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah, not
where I come from, you're not.
You know?
It was turning again.
So all these things
were being shown to me,
and I was able to see them this
time without the wake-up call
that I'd had in the past.
So they held up the
talk for a track
meet because one of the
kids wasn't there yet.
500 people came to
watch 27 kids graduate.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Not
where I come from.
>>REGINA: Well, no.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Right?
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Turns again.
And I went back to Chicago.
I was in a business
deal with a couple of--
>>REGINA: By this
time, you're probably
thinking two dozen people
are going to show up.
Great.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: I don't
even know why I drove here.
>>REGINA: Right
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: I'm
not getting paid for it.
Somebody asked me.
Sure.
It was fascinating.
And then, of course, I
was asked to go to dinner.
And you want to go fishing.
And it was all nice.
But I went back to Chicago,
was in the middle of a business
deal with a couple
of pro-athletes
that I had met at the time.
And something told me
this is not a good thing.
In the past, I'd ignored it.
I'd have just blown it off.
Kept it to myself.
Two weeks later, we go back for
a wedding to upper Michigan.
We had met some friends.
Go back to a wedding.
We're floating down
the Whitefish River.
We stop off to the side,
do a little fishing.
Guy walks out, hey,
you want a beer?
Sure.
Start talking to the guy.
Go into his garage.
And he's got all these
hats in the garage.
And the company we were
involved with or going
to be involved with was 3M
in Minnesota, big company.
And I asked the
guy about the hat.
What's with the hat?
And he says, oh, I used to do
a lot of printing for them.
OK.
Let me give you a scenario.
And I laid out this
business scenario that
was giving me so much trouble.
And all he said was, do you have
a lot of lawyers on your team?
I said, no.
He goes, well, you're
going to need them
if you continue doing this.
Are you going to listen, John?
I listened.
Pulled out.
Lost everything I put in.
And the domino effect from that
at the time I thought was I
could not survive it.
I had a big townhouse on the
Northwest side of the city.
Walter Payton was dropping
me off in a limousine.
I'm going golfing with
all the right people.
And now, I can't get
a phone call returned.
John doesn't have
what it takes anymore.
He doesn't have the
killer instinct.
And for a guy who spent
his life having that,
that was difficult. And it
was almost like the universe--
>>REGINA: What did
that do to your family?
I mean, did it shred
your whole life?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Well,
my kids were little
so they didn't really
know much about it.
>>REGINA: But your wife had been
through a lot with you already.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Already.
And at the time.
And so back then it was
very, very difficult.
And yet, there started to
be, especially these people
in upper Michigan,
Native American folks,
very tied into things
I am not tied into.
So their words were
very encouraging
like you need to
kind of listen more.
OK.
So while it was difficult, and
I mean everybody in our family
thought we're nuts, I
couldn't pay the rent anymore
on this house even.
Every door closed.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: The
hallway got smaller
and narrower and narrower.
And I remember calling this
fellow Bruce Hardwick who
is still my friend to this day.
Muktatha is his name, his
Native American Ojibwa name.
And he said, why don't
you come live up here?
Where we stayed in the motel.
I said, what the hell
would I do up there?
And he said, what the hell are
you going to do down there?
Couldn't argue with it.
A couple of days later, he
pulls up with a horse trailer.
And a couple other trucks.
And everything we own with
these people we barely knew
went in his horse trailer.
And we headed north.
Put everything in storage.
Moved back in the same
two rooms where I was
Mr. Successful a year earlier.
And didn't know what happened.
But the most prominent thing
through all this period that--
and you know, I really got
to just say this right here--
I recount this
story often, but not
as much as I used to
because it's getting
further and further away.
But sitting with you today,
I'm like reliving it at levels
that are needed for me today.
So I appreciate that.
You're asking me questions
that aren't normally asked,
and then I get to dredge that
up and feel a little bit.
My kids are 29 and 27.
And they're doing great.
But back then the priorities
were very different
as a young father.
But through that
whole time I would
have this recurring dream.
And it wouldn't leave me alone.
And it would be right before I
woke up every other day or so.
And I would see
myself on the side
of the road with a
backpack on, with a beard,
with the sun on my left and
a stick in my hand walking.
And then I'd wake up.
And it was the same thing
over and over and over again.
So we move all the
way to Michigan.
I go to this man.
I said, how can I thank you?
He's like, you'll
know when it's time.
Who talks like that?
Not where I come from.
Come on.
And maybe two weeks after moved
there I had that dream again.
And I went to him.
And he starts crying.
We walked back of
his place, he's
got this huge lodge
on his property.
And he takes my hand.
This little guy is about 5'9"
with a flowing white hair.
And just as wide as
he is tall and just
a wonderful human being.
And he says you've
been given a choice.
Most people aren't.
Actually, they are,
but they don't listen.
You're starting to listen.
You're having what
we call a vision.
Not where I come from.
We don't have those.
>>REGINA: Only if You've
had too many beers.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Right.
Then you start seeing things
that aren't really there.
And he said, you've
been given a choice.
You can go back
the way you came.
And I'll never forget his words.
You can see what the
mystery has for you.
Like this is door number two.
So I already know
door number one is.
I came from there.
And Regina, as soon as I said
that, I'll take door number
two, everything shifted.
Must have been the same night.
He strikes the big
fire in his lodge.
And all these people show
up that I barely know.
One guy, Duane Kinard,
he helped move.
He's got white hair
down the back too.
And I get up and
I say I think I'm
supposed to walk from here
to Chicago where I just left.
Makes no sense.
And Duane stands up and
he says, yeah, it does.
I'll go with you.
I've been waiting for you.
So in short form, so
much came together.
All I saw was my piece of
the puzzle, this little blink
I was getting of this dream.
And I acted on it.
But he had a piece.
And a week later Joe Johnson,
20 years old, he hears about it.
Lives in Detroit.
The people-- Bruce and
Pat-- who own the motel,
it's her brother's wife's son.
I got to go with him.
I've never met him in my life.
He comes up.
>>REGINA: Now, I got to
ask you at this point, now
what's your wife
thinking at this point?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: I'm nuts.
You know, and I don't blame her.
And matter of fact, we're
not married anymore.
We haven't seen each
other for a while.
But back then, I know for
a fact her parents were
like just leave.
We'll take you back to Chicago.
Let him figure it out.
We'll take you and the kids.
And I wouldn't have blamed her.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: But
there was something
she knew about was going on,
that even though she didn't
get it, she knew
she was safe there.
These were good people.
The kids were in school.
They're OK.
>>REGINA: So she stayed put.
And you've assembled,
unconsciously--
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Unconsciously.
>>REGINA: --assembled
this little group of men.
Right?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: How many
were there finally?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Well,
just the three of us.
>>REGINA: The three of us.
OK.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: My
father-in-law at the time,
he drove part of the way.
And he went just to make sure
I didn't bug out I'm sure.
But he got so much out of it.
So the first day we went
from this lodge 19 miles
to Escanaba, Michigan.
I couldn't get out
of bed the next day.
I'm not training for this.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: And you can't
walk straight on the highways.
They'll arrest you.
So it's about 450 miles to
Chicago zigzagging ahead of us.
>>REGINA: You had to go on
little country lanes and just?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
Yeah, back roads.
>>REGINA: Yeah, back roads.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: You can't
walk on the main drag.
And the people we met and
the things that we saw, oh,
just astonishing to me.
And to this day, Duane always
says the walk never ended.
Never ended, John.
So we get all the
way to Chicago.
We could spend five hours
just on that walk part.
But we get all the
way to Chicago.
All the families come.
Ta-da!
We did it.
This is a great thing.
There was a fire in the lodge
up there that they had struck.
And there was a fire in
Chicago at Northeastern
where I was at school
10 years earlier.
Hello, Johnny.
Right?
And then it comes to me
that I have to walk back.
I didn't see that
on the way down.
And so Joe leaves.
And Duane leaves.
And I started back alone.
And that's when the
shit hit the fan
because that's when the first
time in my life by myself
really without the accouterments
that I had grown up with that
defined me.
And I was just walking.
I had a rudimentary cell phone.
Every three days somebody
knew where I would be.
And they'd check on me.
On the way down,
it was a big deal.
Newspapers, television,
reporters, free hotels,
free food.
It was a big deal.
On the way back, nothing.
>>REGINA: Nothing.
You're on your own.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
Here's this.
Now, here's this.
Are you willing to do both?
Can't have this without this.
So I started walking back.
And I got to the top of--
oh, it was state
park in Wisconsin.
And I hit the top.
And I just thought I am not
the guy I used to be anymore.
It's like peeling layers back.
And how far down you want to go.
And I literally got to
Kettle Moraine State Park.
And I got to the top.
And I dumped this bag out.
This was a huge lesson for me.
I was carrying this
65-pound pack on my back.
And I don't think I've
opened it four times.
I didn't even know
what was in it.
You might need this someday.
I dump it all out.
And about 3/4 of it,
it was well-meaning,
given to me well-meaning,
you may need this.
But I mean, how many cans
of Spam can you carry?
Right?
And why would you?
But anyway, I dumped it all out.
And I had the realization
that my whole life
I had been carrying a pack that
other people had packed for me.
And it was revolutionary.
And it was heavy.
It was heavy.
It's other people's stuff.
It isn't my stuff.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
And we drag it along
and it gets heavier and heavier
and heavier through life.
And so it's kind of
almost like that chain
in "The Christmas Carol".
You forge that chain
and you drag it.
And so this bag was on me.
And I dumped everything out.
And I decided for the
first time in my life
what I was going to carry.
That's it.
Nobody else.
You're not allowed
to put stuff in here.
You carry your own stuff.
Just keep it away from me.
So dumped it all out.
Whatever it was I put back in.
And I burned stuff.
I just had a little dance.
You know?
And I left.
And I started walking down.
And you can imagine
just that weight lifted,
metaphorically as well.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: And
but the big ah-ha
came outside of
Oconomowoc, Wisconsin,
the bustling
metropolis Oconomowoc.
Came around the lake
and stopped in my tracks
because I was standing
in the same dream
that I had seen every other
day for almost a year.
Side of the road, backpack
on, beard, sun's on my left.
How could that be?
Every circuit I had blew up.
Whatever is left.
I mean, in Chicago,
we don't even
put ketchup on our hot dogs.
So you're asking a lot here.
You're asking me to what?
How could this be?
And it was the clearest
moment of my life.
I was weightless, effortless,
clear, translucent,
you can call it
anything you want.
And I was like a
part of everything
without being anything.
That's a lot for me.
>>REGINA: That's
a lot for anyone.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Sure it is.
>>REGINA: But you had
the courage to do it.
You did finally listen.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: I did.
I did.
And that voice said, clear as
a bell, John, go on the radio.
What was that?
Go on the radio.
I had never been on
the radio in my life.
Didn't care.
A wind finally came, moved
me a few feet forward,
and all that left me.
You know?
I got heavy again.
Get back at it.
And I got down to
the end of the road.
And this friend of
mine was watching me
or she waited for me, Molly.
She was a ranger at the
Horicon Wildlife Refuge.
These are all vivid
details coming back to me.
So it's astonishing.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
Thank you for sharing.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: It's like I'm
seeing the movie again, which I
haven't watched in a long time.
And I got in her car.
And there was a guy named Barry
Farber was on the radio, talk
show host out of New York.
And I said Molly, Molly, I'm
going to do what this guy does.
I'm going to talk
about our lives.
37, college degree,
motel, politics and sports
aren't going to save me.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: And
she said, you just
need to shot a Wild
turkey and a hot shower.
OK.
Did all that.
Finished the walk.
Jumped way ahead.
Finished the walk a day
before Thanksgiving in '96.
And my friend Bruce came
to get me for the last--
boy, oh boy-- he came
to get me on the road.
This big guy, he come to get me.
He said, I helped
you start this.
I'm going to help you finish it.
Couldn't walk.
He was too heavy to walk.
But he got in his car.
And he followed me.
It gets dark at 3:00
in the afternoon.
He followed behind me,
turned his headlights on so I
could see where to walk.
And when I would
stop, he would stop.
He kept that pace.
And that thought came again.
When I stop, the light stops.
You got to keep moving.
It's there.
Finished the walk.
Collapsed, slept for a
week, thought it would all
change immediately.
It didn't.
And in April of '97,
I woke up one day
and started calling
radio stations out
of a phone book in my underwear.
And I said here's why
I want to talk about.
I don't care about
sports anymore.
politics anymore.
It's doing nothing.
There's nothing there.
We need to talk about our lives.
We need to talk about
what are you going
to do at the end of the day.
You we're going to talk about
I've never seen Democrat
or Republican on a headstone.
What are you going
to do in between?
You're nuts.
No one will ever listen to you.
27 radio stations.
Got to the last one
in the phone book,
and the woman had read about me
in a newspaper when I walked,
Ella Sabucco.
And she said, oh, you're
that nut job that walked.
But we'll give you a shot.
Long and short of it
was I got five hours
to do a show, an hour
a week for five weeks.
And I somehow skated
through it all.
Got five more, five more.
At the end of the year, I
thought I was Paul Harvey.
I was doing two hours a week.
I had no idea what I was doing.
At 9:00 AM on a
5,000-watt CBS affiliate.
And the long and short of
it was it went from there.
All these things
started happening.
All I did was kept showing up.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
You were being
your authentic self
and listening to your
own higher spirit.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Is
that what that's called?
>>REGINA: You were
being authentic.
You were listening to yourself.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
Most of my life I
was being inauthentic
with this other part.
And once that clicked in.
>>REGINA: How many stations
did you end up with?
What was the reach finally?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Oh, so at one
point, Charter Communications,
which wasn't even a company
hardly then comes in, and they
said--
that started in '97
was my first show--
two years later
they came and said,
we're going to put a
camera in your studio
because we think people
would like to watch.
I thought, who the heck's
going to watch people
on radio on television?
You know this.
We have similar backgrounds.
It's everywhere now.
But that one move
put me in 80 markets.
And then things got
bigger and bigger.
And I know we're going to
of the kidney thing, which
I took a break from, but by the
time it was all said and done,
I ended up designing Oprah's
radio channel for Sirius XM,
doing the Oprah thing
for four years back
and forth to Chicago.
Dr. Oz's senior producer,
Jean Chatzky, Bob Green,
Nate Berkus.
And I would sit-in
these meetings going,
you know, I already know
all this because I'm
being authentic, as you say.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: I
know how to do this.
I can build all this.
I didn't need master's degrees,
all this kind of stuff.
And so it went from starting
an hour on a Wednesday morning
to the Oprah thing, my own show.
I had 3.5 million
listeners on Saturdays.
Then I left that, went
to WGN in Chicago.
Talked to the whole Midwest.
And have gone on from there.
And I've never been in radio
in my life, but here you go.
>>REGINA: Well, I mean,
it's a remarkable story.
And it's one I think that
brings tears to people's eyes.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
Definitely mine.
>>REGINA: Because they can
see pieces of themselves
where they've
abandoned themselves,
where they didn't listen.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yes.
>>REGINA: You know?
And then, again, this
whole redemptive part.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yes.
>>REGINA: And so now
it comes to the part
when your daughter's in need.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: You're
going to get me on this one.
>>REGINA: I'm sure.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Oh, boy.
Her birthday's coming up.
She'll be 29.
She was born in
September of '88.
And when she was born, she
had a very long clinical name
of something I
can't even remember.
Basically, it's kidney reflux.
And when she would urinate, it
would go out and come back in
and sit in her kidney.
Yeah.
It's just a constant
toxic back and forth.
And we had no idea.
It was fairly common.
And kids grow out of it.
OK.
So we'll wait and see.
So in the meantime, high
fevers and vomiting.
And she's just a baby.
You know?
And we go through all this.
And right before
her fifth birthday
they figure out that it's
not going to reverse itself.
I could have told you that.
But we played the game.
And we're going to
go in and fix that.
We're going to go re-implant
the ureter into the bladder.
Great.
So at the time, we were
at Children's Hospital
in Chicago, Children's
Memorial, was a teaching school.
They rotate doctors.
And get got phone call one day.
I was up for job at
some computer company
doing whatever,
I can't remember.
And call waiting
had just come out.
And I clicked over,
and the guy was
calling from the hospital
the day before the surgery.
And he said, I got
good news and bad news.
The good news is we can
definitely do the surgery
and she won't have
reflux anymore.
The bad news is that reflux
has damaged her right kidney.
We have to take it out.
And then he told me his name.
And I knew it was
going to be OK.
His name was Dr. Kevin Gandhi.
I was good.
Didn't like it.
Knees on the floor.
Felt like puking.
But I thought in the back
of my head this is OK.
This guy's here on time.
They did the whole surgery.
Long haul for mom and dad.
And it was very difficult
to sit in the waiting
room with all these
other parents who
you can't help your kids.
You're just totally--
you can't really
control much any way in life,
but for sure right there.
>>REGINA: It's down to skill
and grace at that point.
Nothing.
You just sit there.
You just sit.
And I watched.
All the parents, I just
remember, we just sit.
That's hell.
You just sit.
Came in afterwards.
And tubes and the whole thing.
And I remember talking with her.
And not 10 minutes
after, maybe later, I
can't remember how long
the time frame was,
but this whole team
of doctors comes in,
the clipboards and the bow ties.
And no offense to any of the
docs watching because I get it.
But you really got to
work on bedside manner.
Don't come within six hours
of a major and say here's
how things are.
And they came in and basically
pronounced that within a year
she'd need dialysis, transplant,
all these horrible things,
wouldn't grow right.
And they left.
What?
And something clicked.
And I asked her, I
said, Amanda, maybe we
can try something different.
>>REGINA: How old
is she at this time?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Five.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Maybe we
could try something different,
which means her belief
system's not in place totally.
She's open to anything,
especially from dad.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Right?
And I said maybe we can
do something different.
OK, Dad.
Because we don't want that.
Right?
No, Dad.
OK.
Well, we'll see what we can do.
You got to remember I'm still
dragging knuckles now and then
there.
But I had learned enough
from my own experience
to go if I can access something
and information and energy
that I don't have, maybe
things can be different.
So I started asking
her questions.
What are we going to be today?
How you feeling today?
What's going on today?
And she'd always answer me.
I'm great.
I'm this.
I'm that, all these
wonderful things.
And she went
through that process
of losing her kidney record
time got out of there,
doing somersaults on the floor.
Please don't move.
She's doing everything
she's not supposed to do.
And she went eight years
before she needed transplant.
We saw a Chinese herbalist at
that time and Western medicine
and Eastern together.
And both played a role.
At one point, they
called all these docs
in when we'd go to our checkups.
And they said this is
called compensatory growth
in an organ.
We've never seen this
in a girl this age.
Right?
What are you doing?
None of your business.
Because I don't want
to spreading it out.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: So we got to
the point where she was 13.
Her body was starting
to give up on that one
kidney that was left.
She had gone as far
as she could go.
And you're going
to get me on this.
Boy.
So we're living
in upper Michigan.
And my father and
grandfather both died
of polycystic kidney disease.
It's not what she had.
But my sister didn't have it.
It's hereditary.
I should have it.
And I'd never gotten tested.
Didn't want to put energy on it.
Didn't want to think about it.
Might have been denial,
but I'm not going there.
And my dad was still
alive at the time,
but that's what was
his problem at the end.
So we all get tested.
At the time, it was blood tests
to see who was most compatible.
And it was me and my
father-in-law at the time.
And since he had far more
Manhattans than I'd ever had,
and I was a lot younger
and better shape--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: --yeah, they
picked me, which is great.
So I went through
all these tests.
Everything was perfect.
I was 43.
I was in great
shape, except, one,
you have to have an ultrasound.
The only way you can tell if
you have cysts on your kidneys
because it you have cysts,
it's not going to happen.
So one morning on
a Saturday morning
I walk into the lodge where so
much had happened in our lives.
And Bruce was in there
doing a naming ceremony
with two people from Chicago.
And a naming is like a baptism
for the Native Americans.
And Duane, my brother Duane,
was sitting in the West,
and a woman named Sandy
was sitting in the east.
Bruce was in the south.
The two people were
standing next to him.
And the chair in
the North was open.
So I went and sat
in the north chair.
And he's talking
and doing his thing.
And it's a beautiful
Saturday morning.
And I have a test
scheduled, I think,
later that week for
this ultrasound.
And I'm just minding
my own business.
Happened to wander in.
I'm sitting there, no
shoes on, and shorts,
playing in the sand.
And all of a sudden,
there's this force.
There's like an ocean coming,
a wave coming at me from out--
and Bruce is still talking.
Like what is this?
I could feel it
from the other side
of the lodge, which is canvas.
And all of a sudden I have
my third you're out of here
out of the body experience.
The first one get electrocuted.
The second one was
getting the car.
And this one I'm
sitting in this chair,
but now I'm standing behind
me sitting in the chair.
I could see it clearly.
Everything's still happening.
Clear as a bell like a movie.
Bruce is talking.
Duane is sitting
there meditating.
The flies are still
moving around.
And there's this force coming.
And all of a sudden through
this wall of this lodge a man
walks in.
And he has blue eyes, red
hair, a big red beard,
like a burlap
tunic kind of thing
on with a big knotted belt.
And just he's on a mission.
And he comes walking in and
walks right through the fire.
And Bruce is still talking.
He walks up to my body.
And he grabs my body as
I'm sitting in a chair
much like this one.
He grabs it, puts it
right my lower back,
and shakes me, this big guy.
And he pulls his
hands up and he goes,
you don't need this anymore.
And it's dripping with
tar, like black tar.
And as soon as he says that, I
go, oh, that's the Jesus man.
I don't even go to church.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Apparently,
it didn't matter.
This is the Jesus man.
And you don't need this
tar on you anymore.
And the next thing you know
I was right back in my body.
And I'm like nobody saw this.
How can nobody see this?
And I left.
I went down and told
my wife at the time,
I said, nope, I got
to tell someone.
No one is going to believe this.
Didn't say a word.
Four or five days later
we go to this test.
And they do the wand on there.
We knew the tech.
We'd gone camping together.
And you know I was supposed
to wait for the doctor
to read it all out.
And she says, what
happened to you?
Why?
She said, well, there's
scarring on your kidney.
Something was there,
but it's not there now.
What happened to you?
I just lost it.
Lost it.
>>REGINA: The tar.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
The tar is gone.
>>REGINA: You don't
need this anymore.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
Whatever that was,
whatever the remnants were of my
DNA download from all the past
people and all of that stuff
that lodged itself in there--
>>REGINA: Was healed.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: --was gone.
>>REGINA: So you now
had a kidney to donate.
And is that when you
made the decision?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah.
Because without that,
I couldn't do it.
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
Exactly.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: She'd
be looking for a cadaver.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah.
So we went in.
She has two birthdays.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Right?
At one point, she's 29,
but she's also only 15
because it's been 15 years.
And we went in Medicine
Children's Hospital, Dr. Hans
Solinger just a miracle worker.
And you know, your kidney
is as big as your fist.
And at the time, she's only
13, and she's straight.
So they had to put some WD-40
on there and shove my kidney in.
And the next day, my son
wheeled me up to her room.
And she's sitting on
the bed cross-legged.
Perfect.
>>REGINA: Born again.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Whole.
Hi, Dad.
And ever since it's never
stopped, all these 15 years.
So getting a chance to talk
about this again and go
through this-- to her,
it's no big deal anymore.
But we came to a conclusion
over many, many conversations
that this was preordained
somewhere, set up.
>>REGINA: The souls
agreed upon it.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: There
was an agreement.
Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: And I
used to kid her, I'd say,
you know, you ever heard
of organ memory retention?
No.
Well, that's where like if you
get a heart and somebody liked
French fries.
I said, I know when
you're on a date.
I know what's going on.
>>REGINA: That's what
I was going to ask you.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah.
I kind of kid her.
And she goes, yeah, OK, Dad.
You know, whatever.
But we have a, obviously,
very close relationship.
And everybody, our family,
everybody played their role.
And one of the big things I've
learned over the years that
connect the dots is you only
get to see what's happened,
not what's going to happen.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: And we
often don't take time,
as you mentioned before
about people bailing out,
to really to see where
this is all headed.
To give it the providence
that it deserves.
To wait for these
things to come forward.
And I don't want any
more wake-up calls.
I'm good.
You know?
Now I get to talk about
it, write about it,
and do other things.
But it's been a journey.
>>REGINA: So now,
getting through that part
of the journey you gave your
daughter her second life.
And you picked back
up with your career.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: I did.
>>REGINA: And so when
you're speaking to people,
because just your story, if
you just told your story,
you're already
doing the healing.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So beyond
your story, what
are the most
important things you
try to impart to people about
just living their lives?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: I
think that it's so easy,
and both of us with
a news or sports
broadcasting background, so
easy to get sucked into that.
And that's not real life.
It's only a keyhole of it.
>>REGINA: No, I got
that when I was 26.
I realized it was a false life.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: But you
know, unless you're in it,
you see it from the back side.
Oh, I love those
people on whatever.
They're paid to
talk a certain way.
But the masses really
don't know that.
So part of my job has
been to say humanity
has such a difficult time
figuring out what's real
and what's not, what's produced
reality versus reality.
And your own reality is
the best reality show.
That's where it matters most.
And when you keep
getting your energies
going into these
other things, you
know we're in a
position where you
have to have a disclaimer that
says real people not actors
on a commercial.
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
So my kind of stump
has been really two
things as waking people
up if at all possible.
You don't want to
wake up sleepwalkers.
It just pisses them off.
However, if you tell your story
and you can relate to people.
And I've been lucky enough to do
so many different things-- been
in the service,
played football, been
in broadcasting, written books.
I've done all this stuff
that allows me to connect
with different demographics.
And I can say I get it.
I understand what's like
to be on unemployment.
I know that.
I know what it's like
to live in a motel.
I know what it's like to make
more money than my dad would
ever imagine.
And then to lose it.
>>REGINA: And to have
an emotional breakdown.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Lose it.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Give, sacrifice.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Recover.
So whatever I signed up for,
I'm fulfilling the bill here.
And I thought if I
just keep it to myself
I'm not doing it justice
to what I've been
asked to do while I'm here.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: So I
think that connecting
with people and that is to
say right where you're at
is where this
stuff matters most.
And that's where you apply it.
It's our lives are
our own curriculum.
I believe there's a set
up behind all of it,
even the worst of
it is a set up.
But if all you see is what's
presented to you on the news,
you're missing the
whole ballgame.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Thank you.
>>REGINA: I know how well that's
manipulated having been there.
And another thing
that you notice
as you mingle with
people throughout life
is there is this general
sense among people
that they somehow don't belong.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Oh, boy.
Listen.
>>REGINA: It's ubiquitous.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: It is.
It is.
>>REGINA: Most people
feel on some level,
what am I doing here.
I don't really belong.
How could everyone be
having that experience.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
That's a pile of crap.
>>REGINA: It's a pile of crap.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
It's a pile of crap.
>>REGINA: But why is everyone
having that experience?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Right.
Well, let me say
a couple things.
Well, I'll tell you why, I
think in the history of humanity
since we started
counting, they figure out
there's been about
70 billion of us
since they started I
don't know who did it,
but that's the number.
>>REGINA: That's
their calculation.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yeah.
And now there's seven.
So we're not staying very long.
So when you think about
the odds of being born
are I can't calculate them.
I'm pretty good at math.
I can't calculate them.
If you take a look at your
parents and their parents
and their parents
and all the little friends
they had and the dates and all
the other stuff they were doing,
the odds of you being born you
won the lottery the
minute you got here.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: The
very second you came in.
>>REGINA: That's what
my husband always says.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Right.
It's true.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Everybody's
out trying to win the Powerball.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: You
already won the Powerball.
>>REGINA: You're here.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: So
reinforcing that with people I
think offsets the erosion that
the news and this other stuff.
Look, if you turn on the TV, and
you know, your breath stinks.
You got the wrong pants.
You got the wrong car.
You got the wrong person.
Everything tells you you're
wrong and you don't belong.
But if you buy our
stuff, you will belong.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: And I think
getting that turned around
is critically important because
we're not here very long.
There's more guarantees--
well, maybe not our cell phone,
but there's more guarantees
in the products we buy
than our time on the planet.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: And
while you're here,
there's something to be done.
Just to take up space and
not pay for that in some way,
shape, or form to me just
pushes all the providence back
that got you here.
>>REGINA: So is it
fair to say, having
been through this
journey, that life
is about listening to
those whispers of the soul?
Wherever you are,
whatever you're doing,
it's about listening.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: It is.
In a world of talk radio--
>>REGINA: Not that kind
of listening, per se,
but you know what I mean.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: --I understand,
but even that's listening.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: So the
point is that's the key.
The key is not talking.
It's listening.
And I wish I had invented it.
But it's not.
I didn't.
It is listening.
And we all know if
you don't listen,
the knocks get louder
and louder and louder.
And instead of thinking
things are happening to you,
see them as something
happening through you.
And when they go through
you, you have value to them.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
They're an experience
just for you to grow.
>>REGINA: So if we're
looking at this,
you bring a bag of tools
to the table or perceptions
to the table.
What are some of
the primary tools
that you put out
there or suggest
that people use
to be able to get
in touch with this direct
communication with self that's
going to guide your life
to its fullest potential?
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: When
in doubt, write it out.
That's my number one thing.
When you've got doubt--
our ancient brainstem is not
set up to handle all this stuff.
I'm convinced of that.
I mean, how can you
go from whether it's
the news or anything
else on television,
or even our cell phones, to
process that much information
is near impossible.
So it gets to be
all tied in a knot.
And the things that
we are here to do,
those are floating
somewhere inside.
But the only way
to access them is
to push the other stuff
aside and just start
what I call automatic writing.
I always tell people,
you don't even
know what your story
is yet until you
say once upon a time Regina
did this and just let it go.
You may write for a week.
But it's got to break
open the logjam.
So that's my first thing is
when in doubt, write it out.
Most people walk
around a doubt all day.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: So
turn the tube off.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: And start
just writing your story.
And you'd be amazed.
While mine is unique to
me, yours is unique to you.
The folks behind the camera.
Everybody has this.
And when you start
writing it out,
it's amazing what
starts coming in.
>>REGINA: Absolutely,
because it starts
coming in from the subconscious,
the superconscious.
It all pours out together.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: It's
like Hoover Dam opens up.
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
And then you got
to be able to deal with
the second thing I tell
people that I think is nothing
new but important to remember
is that your voice matters.
Most people don't
think that they counter
their voice-- it matters.
And you never know
what the straw that
breaks the camel's back
or the word that's said
at the right time when you
shouldn't have said it.
I was on the tram at the
airport coming out this way.
And when you get
on the tram to go
to the main terminal it
takes a big jerking off,
you go to 50 miles an hour.
And there was a little
woman standing there.
And I said, do you want
to hold onto the pole,
because I was in the way.
And she didn't speak English,
but the guy next to her
spoke whatever she was
speaking and translated
and she said thank you.
But if I hadn't said anything,
she'd be on the floor.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: It's kind
of a metaphorical thing here,
but you never know where
your voice matters the most.
So stop using it the least.
Put it out there.
Very important.
>>REGINA: And don't be afraid
to share the things that
are vulnerable and authentic
because that's usually
where the deepest truths
and connections come from.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Listen.
Do you know what it's like
for me all these years later
the guys I played football
with that read my books?
I went to a lunch with
a guy, and he says,
I didn't know you could write.
I said, I didn't
know you could read.
So we're even.
>>REGINA: And it is
interesting because in truth we
watch all these movies,
shows, read all these books,
and the people
that win our hearts
are the ones that are usually
left the most vulnerable.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And not to
be afraid of that.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Yes, I've had
people tell me that very often.
Put these walls up does nothing.
You can come off as
an expert at whatever.
But when you share
your pain with people,
there's always gain
in that for everybody.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE:
Even like today.
Look, I didn't know what
you were going to ask me.
I know we had a bunch
of stuff to cover.
But you zeroed in on the things
that were the most important
to me.
I could come up with
all kinds of theories
and all that stuff
I've written about.
But at the basis,
the foundation of it,
the curricula of
my life, the things
that have changed me the
most usually hurt the most.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: But I was
able to transform them.
So don't stop at the pain.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Right?
When I got electrocuted,
I had a nurse tell me--
and she was beautiful
blond, scrubbing my wounds,
you could do that for five
years for all I care--
until you take ownership
of the pain you don't heal.
>>REGINA: So that's a
very good point to end on.
Don't stop at the pain,
keep moving through it.
It has a message.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: It's going to take
you somewhere more beautiful.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Agreed.
>>REGINA: John,
thank you so much.
It's a beautiful story.
You're a wonderful storyteller.
>>ST. AUGUSTINE: Ah, thank you.
>>REGINA: To learn
more about John's work,
you can go to
JohnStAugustine.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.
[THEME MUSIC]